A lot of people have a lot of different opinions on eyewitness testimonies. Some people may love them and say they are on of the best ways to figure out what really happened during a crime. While others may say they can not be trusted. So which is it? Are they accurate? Are they not accurate? In this essay we will talk about some of the things that affect your brain while witnessing a crime, and why they are accurate, or why eyewitness testimonies are not accurate. There are a lot of factors that can affect your memory while trying to remember something. One of those things is stereotypes. People often clump certain types of people as more likely to do something than others. For example if a teenager is involved in a car accident, if it is hard to tell whose fault the accident was, people often will blame the teenager because they are stereotyped as bad drivers. Imagine yourself trying to recollect a plane crash. If the plane crashed on landing is that necessarily the pilots fault? It has to be right? The pilot was young and clearly didn’t know what he was doing, he should have known that the runway was slippery and should not be landed on at the moment. That is not necessarily the case, air traffic control are the people that tell a pilot it is safe to land or not, however, whenever a plane crashes pilots are the first people that the passengers blame. This stereotype of it is always the pilots fault can often cause people to unintentionally misremember what actually happened to make it seem as though it was the pilots fault. 
Emotions are another thing that can greatly affect your memory. Often times when an eyewitness knows the victim their emotions will in a sense blur their memory. The results of this can often be either over exaggerating what actually happened or almost completely miss remembering what happened. This is because your brain is incredibly traumatized by what happened to your loved one that it will not pay as much attention to what happened during the crime. For example someone that just saw their best friend get shot by a masked man may remember that it was a masked man that shot her friend but when asked what they man looked like either not remember at all, or may completely miss remember what the man looked like because their brain was focused so much on the fact that their best friend just got shot.